# Final Project

By: Linh Nguyen

## Domain of interest
As we've discussed, data science can expose underlying patterns in any domain that uses or collects data (which is nearly any domain). Anything from the forced relocation of homeless individuals (Links to an external site.) to how people gender representation (Links to an external site.) in the media, data can expose interesting (and actionable) patterns. In this section, you'll identify a domain that you are interested in (e.g., music, education, dance, immigration -- any field of your interest) and answer the following questions in your README.md file:

- Why are you interested in this field/domain?
  - This domain includes collected data for food consumptions and how that affects emissions around the world. This project aims to find which food and country produce the most emissions so that we can find solutions to reduce air pollution, which has always been a controversial issue.

- What other examples of data driven project have you found related to this domain (share at least 3)?
  1. [Food Carbon footprint index](https://www.nu3.de/blogs/nutrition/food-carbon-footprint-index-2018) by nu3
  2. [Environmental impacts of food production](https://ourworldindata.org/environmental-impacts-of-food) by Our World in Data
  3. [CO2 and greenhouse gas emissions](https://ourworldindata.org/co2-and-other-greenhouse-gas-emissions) by Our World in Data

- What data-driven questions do you hope to answer about this domain (share at least 3)?
  1. Which food product produces the highest carbon footprint?
  2. Which country has the highest CO2 emissions per person? 
  3. Which relevant fields (other than food), if included, contribute to the emissions?


- We strongly suggest that you complete this section first, discussing what you might want to learn, then move forward with the data discovery process.

## Finding Data
We are lucky enough to live in a time when there is lots of publicly available data made possible by governments, journalists, academics, and companies. In this section, you will identify and download at least 3 sources of data related to your domain of interest described above (into a folder you create called data/). You won't be required to use all of these sources, but it will give you practice discovering data. If your data is made available through a Web API, you don't need to download it. For each source of data, provide the following information:


### Data Source 1
- Where did you download the data (e.g., a web URL)?
1. Food Consumption and CO2 Emissions
[Github](https://github.com/rfordatascience/tidytuesday/blob/master/data/2020/2020-02-18/readme.md)
[raw](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/rfordatascience/tidytuesday/master/data/2020/2020-02-18/food_consumption.csv)

- How was the data collected or generated? Make sure to explain who collected the data (not necessarily the same people that host the data), and who or what the data is about?
    
    - Nu3 uses data from the Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations (FAO) to calculate the carbon footprint generated by each food type per country. The data compares 130 countries and 11 food types that can be categorized as either animal products or non-animal products.

- How many observations (rows) are in your data? **1431 observations**
- How many features (columns) are in the data? **4 features (columns)**
- What questions (from above) can be answered using the data in this dataset?
    - Which food type generates the highest carbon footprint?
    - For each food type, which country has the highest co2 emission? 
    - What is the difference in carbon footprint between animal products and non-animal products?

### Data Source 2
_Where did you download the data (e.g., a web URL)?_ 
   Food Production
  [Kaggle]( https://www.kaggle.com/selfvivek/environment-impact-of-food-production)

_How was the data collected or generated? Make sure to explain who collected the data (not necessarily the same people that host the data), and who or what the data is about?_
- The data was sourced from a study published in Science in 2018, called [Reducing food’s environmental impacts through producers and consumers](https://www.science.org/doi/pdf/10.1126/science.aaq0216). by J. Poore and T. Nemecek. The data describes the environmental impact of different types of food at each stage of production in terms of greenhouse gas emissions.

_How many observations (rows) are in your data?_
- 44 observations

_How many features (columns) are in the data?_
- 23 features

_What questions (from above) can be answered using the data in this dataset?_

- Which types of food have the most negative impact on the environment?
- What types of food production should be encouraged?
- Which stage of food production contributes more to greenhouse gas emissions?
- Compare the carbon footprint of plant-based foods?
- Compare the  carbon footprint of animal-based foods?
- Compare the carbon footprint of protein rich foods?


### Data Source 3
- Where did you download the data (e.g., a web URL)?
  CO2 and greenhouse gas emissions by Our World in Data
  [Github](https://github.com/owid/co2-data)
  [raw](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/owid/co2-data/master/owid-co2-data.csv)

- How was the data collected or generated? Make sure to explain who collected the data (not necessarily the same people that host the data), and who or what the data is about?
  - Collected by OurWorldinData, a publication that specifies in problems around the world, this data set was generated from combining data from various sources such as the Global Carbon Atlas and Climate Watch. The data shows CO2 and greenhouse gas emissions of 207 countries and how other factors affect these emissions in each country. 

- How many observations (rows) are in your data? 
  - 25205 observations

- How many features (columns) are in the data?
  - 58 features

- What questions (from above) can be answered using the data in this dataset?
  - _CO2 emissions_: How much does a country emit each year? What is the average emissions per person? How much has it emitted over time? How do emissions compare when we correct for trade?
  - _Coal, oil, gas, cement_: How much CO2 comes from coal, oil, gas, flaring or cement production?
  - _Other greenhouse gases_: How much total greenhouse gases does each country emit? How much methane, and nitrous oxide is emitted?
  - _Emissions by sector_: Which sectors contribute most to emissions? Does transport contribute more or less than electricity; how large are agriculture and land use emissions?
  - _Carbon and energy efficiency_: How much energy do we use per unit of GDP? How much carbon do we emit per unit of energy?
